happened to me
before thanks Eric appreciate that all
right okay yes only on special only on
special occasions though special
occasions I'm gonna try to work that
into tonight's meeting all right so uh
anyway we're gonna get started tonight
with the uh Board of selectman regular
meeting for Monday March 11th we're
going to start at uh 7:02 pm. and our
first item on the agenda is the Pledge
of
Allegiance I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the
Republic one nation under God
indivisible thank you very
much um public speak we're gonna move
right on to that we'll start with uh
Diane
Grenier
okay I'm working it you're good all good
Diane oh good okay you got me oh
goodness okay I I hope you all got the
um email I sent earlier this this
afternoon about the signs about the sign
yeah I did thank you very much
Paul okay and B basically um I know
you're gonna be discussing the the
welcome to Andover sign I know you've
been doing this for a while and it just
um I mentioned this a couple months ago
about how there seems to be a unofficial
color scheme to signs that we have in
town and I I sent you a photo of the the
school the Veterans Park the library the
Monument Park and the church they all
have this cranberry color scun which is
and the new sign is all green which is
not in keeping with who's
that the um josa trust Kath Kathy and
Mike Kathy and Mike you want to go on
mute yes we have hello hold on hold on
hold on hold on hold on Diane granier
hasn't finished yet we you just had your
mic on so we could hear you so you're
interrupting and I hate to say that to
the plaes because you know you're my
favorites but mute yourself they're your
favorites oh you know I you know oh God
you hurt my feeling okay let's go Dan
anyway so I just wanted to bring to your
attention that there there does seem to
be a color scheme going and um before
it's finalized um the I was wondering if
you might want to consider the color
change um and the other issue was will
this be open for comments for the
general public other than public speak
like I've got right now and before it
gets finalized and put up and then
people comment about whether they like
or don't like or whatever so that was
just my comment was there is a color
scheme although so unofficial and just
want to make sure that you recognize
that and that I've done my due diligence
and part to your attention all right we
appreciate that thank you um Mike and
Kathy pazi
unmute to my dear friend Diane if I dare
I was speaking with my husband I
apologize
dear um actually to the committee um I
would like you to um on your agenda for
7e I would like you to change the word
hendy to
Hutcheson um that the Buddhist place is
on Hutcherson Road not Hindi Road thank
you no I'm s okay thank you you sure
Mike nothing I'm positive I live on
Hutchinson I wasn't asking about that I
was asking if M no I'm good there okay
all right Jeff
Balor can you hear me now yes sir all
right so uh I guess this is the third
month that we haven't really talked
about a budget uh or um you know the
fence permission I sent out some emails
from Thad king um regarding the the
fence posts and he said that it had to
be 5 feet away from the galley
and uh they would require two of the
posts sitting on top of the ground the
rest of the posts would be in the ground
on the other you know three and three
and 3/4
sides and defense on the proposal on
that I had written up it's six foot wire
only five foot
high okay all right I did see the
information in our packet so we will sit
there and discuss it during the meeting
anything else
um no the fence and you know we're we're
applying for for the grant for the
Hartford to do a water collection uh th
gallon
Reservoir um off the uh garden shed and
off the fire department but Adrien had
promised us last year ,000 towards
replacing the roof and gutters and down
spots and stuff and that never
happened all right I also read that and
I will make sure that we get that taken
care of thank you thank you yeah that's
it Bill
[Music]
pen uh good evening I'm here part uh for
the Joshua's trust discussions so that's
uh my that's why I'm attending tonight
thank you and to learn about other stuff
about the town thank you you are a
resident correct Bill uh yes I am you
get to participate in public speak so if
you'd like to say anything other than
the Joshua trust you can feel free
always
understood thank you very much got it uh
Sherry okay we'll move on Joanne
Ebert thanks Jeff um I just have one
here we go one
second I don't know if um it's working
okay sorry I'm trying to click buttons I
just wanted to um bring up tonight
because I didn't want to wait till all
the way to the end if you were possibly
all going to talk about having a town
meeting maybe in the next month or so I
think there's been so many
items um addressed recently that will be
you know expenses to the town or big
purchases or things of this nature so I
think it would just be so helpful and I
know you talk about doing it so that's
only my two cents I'd love to see it to
meeting because we're bringing a lot of
things forward um there's going to be a
lot of grants that are being requested
or asked for in you know the town kind
of needs grants are a great thing as we
all know we love grants it's free money
it's you know money that's coming into
the community but there's sometimes
there's a match that goes along with
that you know and depending on how big
the grant is or how big the project is
the town match will be substantial so um
just love to talk about town meetings
and maybe maybe combining them all
together with the things that have been
talked about thank you that's all I have
all right thank you very much yeah okay
did I miss
anyone Sher I know you je hi attorney
O'Brien yeah hello yes sir oh okay I can
you can hear me all right I I have never
spoken in public speak before and I am
not a town resident but I I you know we
let Town residents speak in and wind
them so I thought you'd let me speak and
this is something that is just kind of a
notice last meeting I attended uh one of
the things that came up was uh folks
from the uh Commission on Aging came in
and asked for uh the the upshot was that
I I was supposed to look at the uh the
laws regarding the Commission on Aging
and to come up with an idea as to how
they could have uh alternat appointed
without you go through the board of
Selectmen and I've taken the trouble of
writing a minor ordinance that you could
act on tonight if you'd like I just
wanted you to know it's there I sent it
out to to as many of you as I've had
email addresses for just in the last
half hour or so and uh you know if you
want you can add it to the agenda if not
it's okay by me it's not an emergency
but it's just there and it's available
and the other thing I'd like to say
given what Joan Hebert just said said is
there's been talk of having a special
town meeting for quite a while I just
want to make sure if you do schedule one
there are a lot of things that need to
go on that agenda and one of them is
something that I've sent to you a while
ago and that is a proposed ordinance
that would allow us to uh uh find uh
site and find violators of the zoning
regulations so he wouldn't have to file
a lawsuit just because somebody has
violated the setback could do it through
a a fine and and so much easier and I've
done it in other towns that it works
really well and I just want to make sure
that uh we get all that stuff on the
agenda as Joanne has suggested when we
do have one because you know they don't
happen that often because it is
expensive it's cost money and it takes a
lot of time so I just wanted to bring
that up and um I'll try to uh keep my
next U involvement and public speak
maybe a few years away okay problem all
right and thank you
um I did read that email on the
ordinance Dennis so that will be
something that we put on the next town
meeting so okay thank you very much Y no
problem did I miss anyone
else okay let's move on
to
uh uh there's an item missing from
our agenda after public speak should be
add in the deletes because this is not a
special meeting the agenda was copied
from a special meeting which would not
have any but there is ADD and deletes
does anyone want to add anything to the
agenda or delete anything from the
agenda
nope well I I I have a question first um
so
3B um do we want to have discussion
Elaine can't make it to the um to the
meeting tonight do we want to keep that
and have our discussion or do we want to
wait until we can ask her further
questions about this no let's have the
discussion and then we can sit there and
incorporate tyan granier's request and
we have visuals of the signs with and
without the bridge so let's have the
discussion amongst the board of Select
members and then just U we can push it
back to after we have our discussion and
if we decide to vote on
anything anything else Jeff you're
good and you're
good
okay um we'll move on to item three then
boards and commission presentations uh
the Garden Club budget uh request um I
know know that we've all um we've all
seen that that issue before so we had
some issues with the fencing so uh Jeff
and his team provided us some pictures
of fencing that would go along the area
closest to the um leechfield and um I
just want to ask one question Jeff why
wouldn't you do that around the whole
garden it wouldn't be stable
enough and there's no reason why it
would have to be on top of the ground
for the other three4 of the fencing okay
all right and we also want to get the
fence on the back and and front and and
and other the back and to the right side
under the ground a foot so that the vars
can't get under it okay and uh Eric um
just so we understand related to that
um was the
the current money is a different issue
and that's related to the fencing so we
have to decide what we're going to do
with that have you gone through that um
request with um you went through it with
Eastern Health High District as far as
what their request is I mean have you
have you gone through it and do you have
any details you want to provide to
us well I I thought initially like you
thought that what uh Jeff was proposing
was to do the entire fence with a
movable um fence um I didn't realize
until this evening that that his
intention was just to do two little
corner sections with a removable fence
and permanently Mount the other fence um
so most of the fence is not in the leech
field um you know it would obviously it
is in the repair area so if we had a
problem with our you know septic system
the first thing we would do is tear out
the entire Community Gardens um where it
exists now but there's no indication
that we're going to need to do that in
the short term all right so so my
question to you is is the areas where
they're going to permanently install
that fence impact anything related to
the new community center or to any other
issue that you have related to
this well it's going to be a lot of
visual impact
I mean it blocks your view of the
Woodline and you know nature I guess um
it just depends what your priorities are
if you want to look at a chicken wire
fence out the community center that's
what you'll
see it's not chicken wire it's a
2x3
square and it's John Bolton's got got
the model on on Hein road that you can
see okay I I'm asking um I understand
your your your issue Eric but I'm asking
you is if they if they install those in
the ground permanently is there any
negative
impact that you can tell us directly
about other than
Aesthetics as long as I stay far enough
away from the leech field no okay all
right so
um now comes the other part this is do
we have the money in any other account
at this point in time that you know I'm
basically telling you to come back if we
chose to do this we as a board need to
know it's somewhere available if we
chose to to do this and if we chose we
choose not to do it then we don't have
to worry about it but we need to know if
it's available because what they're
asking for initially is out of the
current Year's
budget
I mean if you take it out of this year's
budget at this point I would say you're
taking it out of contingency because
with four months of the budget to go I
don't know that I'm comfortable with any
specific spot saying this budget line
item is going to be under I have a
couple I think are probably going to be
considerably under but but not that I'm
willing to to bank on at this point okay
and and Jeff just so I understand you're
asking us for $2,400 for fence for the
community garden out of this year's
budget that is correct okay all right
um and so Eric you're telling us it
would be out of contingency at this
point in time that's where I would dig
it okay um do any other board members
have issue uh related to this or an
opinion related to the fencing for the
can you hear me at all yes yeah I'm
trying to get my
other microphone working but I'm really
concerned about putting a fence up until
that Community Center is completely done
and we have everything seated in
backfield I would like to see the
community center done before we put any
fences
up okay that's my personal opinion
because I just think if we're going to
try to grade and this fence is up there
it could just it could cause problem
with the
contractors
okay
um anybody
else ER I have a question for you the
you're saying that the fencing is on the
leash field that's being in that's in
use right
now no he said it was in the repair
repair
area the reserve area the whole garden
in the repair area no that that's not
totally what I said what Jeff originally
proposed was a 10 foot wide away from
where the gardens are at 10 feet it
overlaps those posts would be sitting
right on top of the galys they would be
on the gallies at five feet they're
right on the edge of the galys because
remember these are concrete gys that are
are pretty wide um you know so what he's
proposing but it only they only overlap
on a portion of the leech field so what
Jeff is basically proposing is that on
that
portion they don't don't put any
permanent anything in the ground because
they can't get a permit from that um you
know to do it anyway from Eastern
Highland South district and then once
they get past that area then they put
permanent posts in the ground areas that
are not that are more than five feet
away from the galleys and therefore out
of the technical leech field that is
what he's proposing and I'd like to say
that we're not going to be concreting
the posts into the ground we're going to
be filling the uh around the posts with
crushed
stone okay and so from what I read
Eastern Health uh districts uh reviewed
this and sat there and said that they
were not okay with the
fences in the ground in the areas that
Eric is talking about so what Jeff was
telling the fence would be three um
three quarters permanent and one quarter
not permanent sitting on the ground and
Jeff sent us a an image of a of a fence
design that they had built um right and
my question my question Scott was could
we use that fence all the way
around the garden because then that way
what it would do for us on a short-term
basis in my head I kind of had the same
concerns that Jeff Murray was saying is
that when you're in an area like that
you never know what's going to happen in
a construction site until it's totally
finished so if you actually put them
above ground or on the ground level then
you could move them if you needed
to
but
um it's a issue for the rest of the
that's front could be made the way that
you're
suggesting Eric just just to be clear
about that whole thing you said that if
something happens to a sip septic system
the community guard would be torn out
that that was a quote from you yes okay
it would have to be the community guard
just in a second a second to that I I
would say that that was put in by the
town crew and they wouldn't have put it
on the reserve nor
our uh galleys right now as it was they
wouldn't know so I I'm just curious of
why you said Put it on the reserve that
they didn't it's not on the reserve
there okay okay listen listen the the
issue of Eric saying that it would be
torn out if it is on the if it is on the
repair area then the answer would be yes
it would probably have to go but we
don't have problems with
our our septic in totality yes we have
some concerns and yes there are some
things that are going on that whole
Space has to be understood as it's a you
know if we needed to do a repair there's
going to be
issues we would do everything possible
not to have it impact the gardens I mean
listen let's all be honest we would all
do whatever we could not to have it
impact Gardens Eric is being extremely
um linear and blunt in his assessment of
he is reading the maps and he is reading
the maps correctly I bet Scott
but he's he's stating a fact that um
while it may be true could have been
stated
differently I'm sorry uh so Jeff the
issue is we will do everything we can
not to impact the Community Gardens but
we as a board do not control the way
that the septic system functions between
the town and the school and everything
else that's fa I understand that um the
I would say putting putting Back Fence
permanently in and then do the sides in
the front as you suggested that probably
would uh straighten this whole
messo well it was approved by Eastern
Health districts with that caveat it's
not it's not in the it's not in the
ground so it doesn't matter correct so
Eastern health district was acceptable
to that as an alternative now the
question goes which is which was raised
by Jeff is that it is a construction
site
still you know that you know that better
than anybody you know you know the whole
area better than anybody what do you
think you're you think those three I'm
telling you I'm saying that if you
permanently put the back in and then do
the sides in the front like that thing
that Jeff Ballard made up that that
would work for me okay then they can be
move whenever you wanted to but not the
whole unit the three sides are
permanently in the ground and if the if
there becomes a problem with the
community center those three sides
become problematic yeah you could move
them then we made him
portable he's not making him
portable the three sides he's burying in
the ground a foot down with with um um
I'm sure it's like chicken wire in the
ground je have to stop Critters from
digging under and he's putting crushed
stone on top of that and you know he
he's going to sit there and have posts
permanently buried in the ground on
three sides and then on a quarter of the
unit Which is closest to the leechfield
he's going to use the movable fences
yeah they ride on top of the ground
they're built on like a two by that's
what I that's what I said and so I'm
asking you again the three sides that
he's burying are they problematic if if
we have issues with Community
Center
I I think he can the gr a lot of the
grading is going to be done this coming
week okay all right um Jeff growing
season starts when
sir uh we want everything in the ground
by Memorial Day Memorial Day at the
latest all right so Jeff you know know
you know what we have we have one more
month to sit there on this fence issue
to get you an answer so it's the March
it's March 11th we have another meeting
in April Scott you're telling us that
the grade most of the grading in the
community center will be done by then
I'm hoping that the back he saids he's
going to bring a dozer and a lot of the
everything's G to be moved around this
coming
week okay Eric does that align with your
timing
uh I mean my time timing is your timing
I mean I think you're right they the
excavator is going to be in working
pretty hard and and they're going to be
raising the grade up and trying to
establish final grades get the leach
field in get the holding tanks in that
kind of stuff certainly within the next
month to six weeks okay all right then
Jeff what I'm going to recommend is that
we push this off till next month and
once we get the community because if all
of that
um all of the grading is done by the
time of our next meeting we'll have a
much better understanding and I Jeff I
will work with you on the roofing issues
that you talked about and um I will also
work with Eric on trying to find a
potential area if we can find the
funding for it we'll at least have a
better understanding at our next meeting
where we would take some of that money
so um unless other members of the board
have an issue related to that or they'd
like to see something moved forward
right
now I think waiting we have time okay
all right Jeff thank you very much for
the information I appreciate it I just
have I have a quick question for Jeff um
actually two two questions for your 2024
budget so you're you're talking about
using the roof gutter water collection
pipe and then you're ask asking or
mentioning install water and
electricity
so can you explain to me if we if we're
having water and electricity put at the
um Community Center what were you
thinking to use that for for the
garden uh a combination of
both more U recycling rainwater so we're
not depleting the well water um for
water shortage
uh more
sustainability and more environmentally
sound um and I was I I have serious
doubts you're going to get get me water
and power um this growing
season what um how was the conversation
left um so I I talked to the person that
offered the resources for the um the
roof and he said that he had you were
emailing back and forth so what what
happened with that conversation where
was that left off with because it you're
saying that the materials weren't off
weren't given to you but he's saying
that he offered them and you didn't hear
back that's not we'll deal we'll deal
with that later like I'd rather not deal
with that in the public meeting so Jeff
like I said Paul and I will deal with
you on that and we will get that
situated that that that's G to happen
somehow my question is with Paula D I'm
going to go on Paula because I read that
but I didn't read item four on the
second page install water and
electricity what are you requesting
you're requesting that that during
construction we run water and
electricity out to the Community Gardens
and you can have your own Supply that's
correct it the shed the garden shed is
already wired for power and we're
proposing to do a water collection of a
thousand gallon Reservoir and a shallow
well pump to pump into the already
installed irrigation system in the front
of the beds when we were running a hose
from the fire department it was losing
pressure we didn't have sufficient
pressure to to water the whole bed and
it took like a day to to keep moving
Sprinklers
and okay and um so that that we're going
to have to address with Eric after
because I don't think that was in the
plans I mean Scott are you aware that
I didn't I I was not aware of any of
that there we we put a a faucet in the
back of the community center so that the
garden garden people can use the water
but I have never heard anything about
any power or thousand gallon tank no
well the water I mean you're basically
he basically looking for water to be run
a hose right but if you read the way he
he has it written he says via the
community center so he's he was thinking
it was off of the Community Center not
any else extension board and a
hose okay all right Le let's not deal
with this on this meeting let's um we
we'll talk with Eric because we got to
make sure that we're what we're doing is
is accurate and I'm not sure that we as
a community uh we got to work on that
one because you're not going to want to
run that stuff above ground across you
know your patio um so let's sit there
and U see what we can do really to
that all right electrical if we're
talking about electrical that shed
you're talking about a significant cost
we have to trench and Barry conduit and
you know separate lighting panel and the
whole nine yards so it's a lot of work a
lot of money a lot of work and a lot of
money
electric okay um all right let Let's uh
we'll talk about that and just sit there
and see if
there's any viable alternative to
running a a hose and a cord above ground
across to the Community Gardens so um
all right um anything else that anybody
wants to ask Jeff Ballard or this
issue okay Eric make sure this is on uh
old business for next meeting please
okay uh 3B economic development
committee and the welcome sign in our
packet we got
um visuals from aane in multiple
formats um
um she it's on page
eight she provided
us
um welcome to and Andover The Hop river
river
Corridor welcome to Andover established
1848 and she gave us one welcome to and
over established 1848 with the bridge so
and then one with a special welcome
text um does anybody have any issues
with any of these I know we've talked
about the bridge before and now Diane
has brought into it a color issue
um anybody have any
issues how do do this yeah we talked so
last month we we asked um Elaine to come
back with us with a different
font so I think
that's that's addressed in this and
removing the covered bridge um I think
option I don't know if somebody can
share their screens or if we want to
keep going through with what we have in
the packet but number
two has um it's just a clean font it's
not oh here we go thank you is that the
one you want SC just a little I think
that's the one yeah yep that one so that
one
it's it just it looks clean the it's not
hard to read because of the font the
script is better or or taken off rather
and I was I've been driving around and
kind of noticing what other towns have
been doing
so most areas don't have any any logo or
branding on it because they just the
purpose of the sign is to welcome the
person to the town and and you want to
make sure that that's a clear message so
I think this one does that with the font
fixed and taking the covered bridge off
um and my thoughts on what Diane shared
um AES their brand is is a is red white
and black so that's why their sign is um
you know kind of matches that and I
think the thinking with this green goes
along with what the website looks like
so when we were creating the website
with Civic um we went with green because
it's kind of like a fresh new look to it
so I think this would go with I mean I
would love to have millions of dollars
to Rebrand the town and make sure that
all the signs match and and everything
um is up to dat but I think this is a
process that we will have to think about
for future future stuff but I think this
is just a a clean design with the green
and it goes with our fresh look to our
website um the
red um down at the at veterans I'm gonna
say it right Diane
Veterans Memorial fields that you know
that's an older sign and and that was
probably what was popular back in the
day so maybe in another budget cycle we
can update the rest of the signs in town
but my my opinion and my thoughts are I
like the green it stands out it looks
clean and it goes with um the website so
just just my my thoughts that I'm
sharing okay
um I agree with you on the sign that you
chose I do believe that that is the
nicest
looking of the
sign I like that it's a consistent font
with the exception of the established
1848 and then I I too Paula have been
looking at other signs and uh Mansfield
actually has their name and a a curly CU
kind of design um and I think that's
something that they use consistently
probably through their letterhead and
all the rest of their Town documentation
um um
but if I was going to vote on one I
would vote on that one as well well
anyone
else the only concern I have around
to only concern I
have go ahead go ahead
an okay I noticed in Colombia in the
center of town they have a sign that
does not show up well it's large enough
but it it was dark colors and the
letters didn't show up I think this one
will show up pretty well I do like these
colors and I like this second sign here
this one that's my
choice yep it's my choice as well the
only concern I do have
is um it looks like it's wrapped all in
composite but then we're doing pressure
treated posts cemented in the ground so
we need to be aware that the lifetime
you I mean those are going to rot
eventually and the sign is going to fall
over so if we if we're talking a couple
hundred dollars more to go with
something that's a little bit more has
more longevity to it than pressure
treated wood I'd be open to it when we
do the installation and that's pretty
much my only criticism of the
sign okay I Echo what Jeff Marie just
said it's gonna R it's gonna rot and
it's gonna fall over and probably good
sign yep good sign but we should
probably do better on the
post okay let's you can let's make a
recommendation
to Elane related to this sign so Eric or
follow when Elaine calls please let her
know about the sign let her know about
the concerns about the posts and what's
installed in the ground and then one
last thing um because of where it's
located uh uh it might help if the
letters are in some type of reflective
material um because it will not be well
we I guess we've talked about
potentially having to be some kind of
solar lighting to the sign but uh I
don't think that's in the budget
here so can I can I ask Eric Eric can
you scroll up I think this might help
with the so look at this
sign what what do you think the material
is on the bottom
there it it looks like it's just some
something on the
outside some tuo
or P doesn't say
huh
so would that be helpful
with having it not fall over or we're
not sure with the um material you're
gonna in I would just do hollow PVC
squares 4x4 Square posts and just fill
them with rebar and cement and then that
way you've got a rot proof base so down
the road if you ever have to change a
sign that that base is going to be there
for hundreds of
years
okay there's another way to do it it's G
to add by $100 to the
cost
okay so we're I'm going to talk to
Elaine about reflective letters and then
making sure the bottom of the posts are
are rot proof
okay cement yeah do we need to check
with Connecticut DOT if anything
reflective on the highway or off the
highway
know highway signs are reflective I just
don't know what putting a sign up with a
reflective material on it would have any
ramifications isn't the new sign at the
end over Plaza
reflective no okay Collective white
vinyl sorry okay white plastic does
anybody want to uh further discuss the
sign no we're almost there all right
right let's go uh let's move on to item
three board and commission presentations
uh we've already done are you making a
motion to approve
that
um sure I'll make a motion to approve
the the welcome to and over sign with
the same
font is established in
1848 with improved
footings to provide for longer term
stability to the
sign that will be my motion what about
what about
addressing the reflective and and the
price
um well she already has that in her
budget so she has money in the budget to
do this this year whether she chooses to
use reflective lettering whether we
choose to use reflective lettering or
not will depend upon a couple things so
if you want me to put that in so um so I
make a motion to uh approve the welcome
to Andover sign using the same font um
with the established in 1848 with
improved footings and the possibility of
using
um reflective lettering on the sign if
it conforms with do Reg
ulations I'll suck in that okay any
further discussions oh okay I'm sorry
I'm gonna have to make an amendment that
it's a green sign with gold
lettering okay and Jeff will you still
accept that green green sign gold
lettering yes I will okay all right
further
discussion all right all those in favor
I
hi um uh item four appointments Eric uh
there are no appointments okay uh item
five
resignations so there are three
resignations uh that I'm aware of sorry
they came too late to make your
packet uh Kathy pazi has resigned from
the old over uh burial ground committee
and the EDC and I believe Mike pazi has
resigned from the Conservation
Commission but he's continuing to run
cart uh in the short term until his
replacement is train and that's all the
information I have on
that okay other than to thank them both
for many many many years of service to
the town yeah um I want to Echo that um
Mike and Kathy thank you very much for
all the time you've put into those three
groups
um we still look forward to seeing you
around quite often right right well
we're still on some committees we
haven't we haven't ended all of our
relationship with our wonderful town and
anyway I have to see Eric from time to
time so he doesn't forget me and uh
thank you for everything you guys have
done
thanks thank you oh thank you
yeah okay anything else Eric on
resignations or just those three just
those three that I know of all right
let's move on to item six the Town
Administrator report okay we got a lot
of the agenda so I'm going to keep this
kind of short um it was a busy month for
me the budget is off of your plate and
onto the board of Finance the first
meeting for Board of Finance starts in
two days first budget meeting so I'm
looking forward to that
uh so we got the submitted the grant for
the lsip application for the route 316
connectivity project that is around $2.9
million Grant um if we get it
construction is 100% funded through the
lsip program which is one of the reasons
why I really wanted that grant grant
application I also submitted today a
Grant application for the EP Rec Trails
program for what we talked about which
is the second half of that as a loop
trail that would go back through town
property um I think the chances of
getting that is fairly low but we had um
just simply
because you know they tend to get seven
to 10 times as many applications as they
have funding available so that's a
really competitive Grant
application um so it that's a long shot
for us but it's worth pursuing and we're
just asking for the design money we have
the root estab we know where the route
will be but it would take a fair bit of
design and Engineering to get up the
slope so that's what that is for um we
do have one RFP that closed a week ago
which is for inspection services for the
federal local bridge program for Bunker
Hill Bridge uh we got nine applications
to that
um the review pool for this is kind of
dictated by do so it's not really
necessarily in our hands um it looks
like the Review Committee will be Mark
Burns who's the principal engineer for
do for that program uh Ed czzle
representing the town myself
representing the town uh Town engineer
Todd Penny he's not the town's not
andover's engineer but he's centries
um and that's it so that will be the the
Review Committee um for that I had
wanted to put our town engineer from
Nathan Jacobson on but the dot decided
that that was a conflict since they uh
also uh apply through the federal local
bridge program so they didn't want their
engineer uh reviewing one set of
inspections while their company performs
inspections for other people so that's
where where that went
um so I talked about this briefly the
other day or last month but the we had
been working on for quite a while a new
arrangement for animal control services
for Town um going into a three-way
partnership between Andover Hein and
Colombia uh that's kind of Fallen apart
so we will resign a contract with mid
and continue uh or not mid neok with
nikog to provide animal control services
for the town so not ideal but it's still
a functional relationship
so uh no problems with that um the
committee and Scott could probably talk
to this
better that's reviewing the
specifications on what they want both
for the playground and the pickle ball
courts is still meeting so um that's
exciting but that will need to go to
town meeting again um coming up fairly
soon um we did order the poop dispensers
and we have them in for the ball field
um we're still waiting on the signage
the additional signage to commit
hopefully we'll have that fairly
quickly um and then there is a we
started to get some significant erosion
on one of the smaller streams
that runs uh that Bunker Hill Road is on
not the main uh not the Hop rer one but
one of the smaller culs um so Public
Works is going to have some repair work
to do there uh when the water goes down
a little bit it's not we're catching it
early enough that there's no real
significant damage but we want to be
careful with that location because that
is a location that is a covert that we
know is is uh you know
not in the best shape so uh that is it I
put in the packet um a uh a schematic
which shows both the proposed route for
the mob theuse Trail down Hein Road and
Cider Mill as well as the proposed hop
river trail trail head and path through
the woods so you have both of those in
your packet to talk about and that's
basically I want to say unless you have
specific questions for
me you you noted one your notes I'm not
sure which one it was that the town
engineer was speaking to the do to renew
access on hutchon road so we are um one
of the issues you know that you're well
aware of is the Culver on Hutchinson
Road is that's been in kind of failure
mode for a while and that's an expensive
CT to to to replace today that's a 1.2
million or so project so what we've been
discussing because the town land
borders on the other side of the river
um on Hutchinson Road Hutchinson Road
essentially goes all the way up to Route
Six the concept of putting back in a
another access point on the other side
of Hutchinson Road and therefore we
could just abandon in the bridge over
Hutchinson Road and the only real people
that would be affected is there's one
house there's the buddist monastery and
then there's the farm access to the Post
Farm but they would just all enter from
the other side as opposed to that side
so that's kind of what we're looking at
as a cost savings measure um you know
and trying to keep our you know so we
don't use essentially a a state local
bridge
program dollars and then you know six or
700,000 Town dollars to fix that we
think we can do it cheaper by doing
that I just I wanted to note that there
the farm equipment is very big equipment
needs to get onto that
farm
yep um Eric in your report for the
community Senior Center you said
um talk about this verbally do you have
anything any updates or anything I know
there was a walkth through but anything
that you want to
share uh sure and both Scott and Jeff
can can uh chime in um you know there
the site contractor is starting major
excavation work um tomorrow so like in
the next couple days we're going to
start moving gravel or they're going to
start moving gravel from our pit we'll
we'll load them and they'll they'll
start doing the fill uh for that
location they got to strip the top soil
first move the fence line back a little
bit but they're getting ready to do the
major excavation portion of that so we
kind of worked out
scheduling um we all had a kind of a
meeting of the minds of who's doing what
and when so I think we're we're in
reasonable shape there um and then we
did a walkth through of the
building uh you know we still I gave
them the punch list that I had of things
that still needed to be
corrected um before
insulation um the only thing of that
that's really of note that we are going
to have to figure out how to do is uh
there are uh bath fans going in in the
basement in the two B bathrooms even
though we're not finishing off the the
basement the ventilation was supposed to
go in before the ceilings went on and
that's a little problematic based on how
that spot is framed um so I've gone back
to Leading Edge with a proposal about
how I think it could be done and we're
going to talk to the the HVAC contractor
on site tomorrow um because they really
hadn't kind of they had
bought the
uh the fans for it but the fans they
bought don't actually fit in the Bays
because the buildings frame 12 Ines on
Center so we got to rethink that a
little bit but that's
underway um you know they're they're
trying to push with the hope of of by
the end of this week starting on the
insulation work but they have a lot of
things they got to get done um between
now and then before that can happen but
you know that's where they're they're
shooting
for hey Eric you have a picture on a
page 17 of a culvert it's at the bottom
of your report underneath the what is
that so that's the Culvert I just talked
about that is on Bunker Hill Road that's
a like a double 48 inch Culvert and what
you're looking at is the the embankment
has eroded away a lot um so you're
you're into like the old mortared
structure and it's starting to undermine
the wing wall so uh Jay is working with
the wetlands Commission on that um just
to make sure that we have a solution
that they're going to be happy with but
basically what they're going to do is in
right in the water at the base of that
they're going to plunk in a couple of
really large you know like man-sized
ballast rocks and then recreate that
bank and reinforce that bank so they
don't have further arach that's the plan
at this
point okay and then um do you have an
update on the the state work being done
on Boston
Hill uh I do um the only real update I
have is they asked for you know about a
five day extension because there were a
couple days where the water levels were
too high for them to work in that area
so as far as I know that's pushed the
completion dates pushed back about five
days pushed back
till April 10th must be the 27th 27 yeah
it's it's I mean they were supposed to
be finished by the end of
March um so I think they're probably
looking at you know very first maybe
week in April like that I actually have
it written down I'm just not I just
don't have it in front of me okay the
engineer sent me something the other day
can we can we get a post out there with
an update if that hasn't happened yet
please sure thank
you anybody else have any other
questions of Eric yeah I just have a
quick one for you Eric you were talking
about these Trail grants and a loop
trail the one you're talking about is
the one
from the rail trail all the way back to
the school correct or town hall correct
okay I sound like there was two
different grants out there I just want
to make sure we were just talking about
one single Grant and that this was the
trail that you had in the packet no we
are talking about two different grants
um okay what's this what's the separate
Grant because this is this is the first
I've heard about it okay I've mentioned
this at at multiple Board of Selectmen
meetings that our approach was to
because they're they're
essentially neither Grant
application can fund the other Trail
like for instance if you look at here
I'll show my
screen so if you look at the Green Path
the Green Path is the low low zip
application that is a grant that we're
we stand a really good chance of getting
the fallback
position is to run a trail through the
woods there is a lot
of you know downside to that there's
some upside but a lot of downside to
doing that um so the green trail is a
lsip application that's one completely
separate
entity um but do or actually kog said
that um they were more favorable of
Trail connection applications they
formed a loop trail so we solved that by
applying for both grants simultaneously
for different routes but this one the
one in red were only applying for design
money we're not applying to build it
we're just applying to uh produce a
final design so that it could be built
at sometime later does that make sense
yeah it makes sense no we just I just
thought we were talking about separate
projects instead of this this one
project so no it's makes sense to me now
well there are actually two completely
separate projects with two completely
separate funding sources that it's but
it's intended to be one Loop that's the
intention if we ever got money for both
of them and we could build them it would
be a loop but okay that's why I was
that's where I was hung up when you were
talking about Loop and I didn't know
what we were talking about when we said
Loop so right that's what hung me up a
little bit so okay I'm good okay should
have been more clear on
that okay anything else for
Eric all right Eric thank you let's move
on to item seven old business um uh 7A
Joshua's trust
discussion okay uh so I will lead off
this one at the last meeting you asked
us to go back and get kind of harder
numbers you asked as us to come back and
do two things one uh reach out to Mr
Fabian and make sure that we had
addressed uh his concerns with the
project remember he was the abutter that
had some issues or some questions to the
board at a previous meeting and the
second thing was understand what the
cost basis would be to complete a
parking area so I asked uh Jay to put
together essentially two proposals the
first would be a kaj Mahal uh approach
if we did everything that he would like
to do as part of this um you know and
then the second thing would be a more
limited fully functional parking area
with a good gravel base um but you know
disposing of material on site as opposed
to chipping it all and trucking it all
offsite not taking down as many trees
still visible from the road but not to
the same level of finish so that is what
was done and both of those were in your
packet um and so I think that we've
satisi and then at the same time
Joshua's trust has agreed to help the
town with the clearing of all the junk
that's on the town's property all the
tires you know in the metal and all the
the material that was deposited there by
uh the people we got the property from
originally and do all the markouts of
boundaries of the Town property um which
is good because we don't really have the
capability to do that
themselves so that's kind of where we're
at I would suggest that probably John
henin the president excuse me um can I
speak about the Joshua
Trail um my name is Sher shot and the uh
trailer buts me and I have serious
concerns with safety and privacy
and
it's the all the the traffic I saw go
through there came in entered on my
property line not where you have it
ribboned off then when you cross
over it it people are up on the back
Ridge of my house you bought that corner
of the prop the state bought that corner
of the property but people are standing
and talking and having conversations and
point in my backyard and I live alone
I'm a widow and I don't feel safe and
and then my neighbor across the street
she has to have a light left on at night
because her car gets broken into so
we're gonna have litter and then and
then you only want people who walk what
about the people who are mountain bikers
or or ride dirt bikes you know who who
litters the people who walk
but I I want that I am I I am not happy
where it's the ribbons are located
especially in the back of my property
because I don't need people staying in
the top and having conversations and
hanging out and looking at in in my
backyard okay Sherry uh thank you very
much um I know that we have spoken to
some of your neighbors who participated
in the survey previously and so um what
we'll end up doing is we'll end up
trying to um I would ask Joshua trust
folks maybe get with Sher after this I
know this more work but it would be
beneficial to everybody if we understood
what is being proposed
um but it is a and how are you gonna
buffer the traffic Sherry um that's why
I asked you during public speak to speak
um during meetings you're not it's only
supposed to be Board of Selectmen and
people Sor that are requested to
participate and now we appreciate you
letting us know we do but you should
have spoken during public speak just to
let you know in the future so what we
need to do as a group and with Joshua
trust in the people from the town is is
is work with Sherry to get her to
understand exactly what's being proposed
and understand what we're we attempting
to do with that property and see if we
can satisfy some of her concerns that
she's expressed to us today so um I
would ask um John and um did did you sit
there and speak with Mr Fabian and have
discussions with Mr Fabian about yes so
I wanted to I wanted to discuss a few
things um we we met with Mr Fabian twice
that's uh Bill Penn who's on the line uh
who will be the steward for this
property and I met with him twice um he
has he had expressed some of the same
kinds of concerns that Sher had um and
worked with him to pull that
trail 30 or 40 feet away from his
property line and he's very pleased with
the new location he's indicated he's
excited about using the trail himself so
I think he wrote a letter of uh
something in your packet um I would
consider him at this point a supporter
of what we're doing out there um I
wanted to talk very briefly about what
Joshua's trust can is offering the town
because since I spoke last in January I
brought this uh up with the board of
Joshua's trust um and Joshua's trust has
agreed to pay the first $8,000 of the
parking lot which is the amount
essentially that Eric described um as
the uh as the basic model of the parking
lot so of course the town can build
whatever kind of parking lot they want
but we we are willing to ba to pay that
first
$8,000 in addition we will provide a
steward that's going to be and that's as
Bill Penn and over resident um bill will
be responsible for maintaining the trail
he's also going to make periodic uh
visits to the parking lot to make sure
there's no litter we don't have big
problems with litter on our properties
we just don't and when we do we we take
care of it um even less problem with
litter out out on the property itself um
Eric mentioned that we're going to be
marking the boundaries we've already
marked the boundary between the town and
the Joshua's trust property we will also
be marking the bound
of the of the back Lots on wheeling Road
um so that that will be much more clear
than it's been um Eric mentioned that
we'll provide a volunteer Force to help
the town pick up the debris that's on
Town property uh and then all the the
final thing that we'll provide you with
is um and we would work with the town on
this on providing signage and a his uh
kiosk at the trail head um and one very
brief item that I would just mentioned
that addressed um sher's comments a
minute
ago the the folks have walked up the
property line into the property because
currently there's no there's not good
access where the trail is going to be
it's it's terribly overgrown we have
worked to pull the trail away from if if
I understand the the and I think I know
the property she's talking about we've
worked to pull the trail away so there's
not significant sight line into the
backyard of that property from the trail
itself and we would be willing to look
look at that again with her to see if
there's any more modifications that
could be made good appreciate that if we
can um um can we uh sit there and maybe
recommend that um John you and Mr Penn
get together with Sherry at the property
and discuss it if Sherry that would be
acceptable to you because um we would
like all the stakeholders to to be
satisfied with this and you know uh do
the best possible job we can to make
this agreeable to everybody that uh
lives in that area so if that's possible
for the two of you and then we can sit
there and and vote on this next month um
as to where we need to go if that's
acceptable to
everybody all right yeah I'm acceptable
to it um and after walking it I
definitely need have some concerns sure
and we just like you to sit there and
understand exactly where the Joshua
trust group is planning that trail where
we've all walked it because you know
you've probably seen some of us out
there walking the trail just to get an
understanding of where it is yeah I've
been in my backyard and had someone like
you know 50 feet from me looking at me
on the edge of my property so not
knowing what it is and then having it
it's it's disturbing when many times
when I heard voices just at top of the
ridge of my back property staring and
pointing at my at my backyard okay um
well we and hanging out if it was us
Sher uh we we apologized we didn't mean
it that way we were just trying to get a
lay of the land and understand what we
were doing and what we what could be
done with that property because it's a
beautiful prop you think it would make
sense for you know people's
feeling it especially not knowing um
that you would let people know the
budding property prior to going in and
starting walking around and hanging out
in my backyard Sherry we we didc I'm
just I'm just wondering I'm I'm going to
um we actually um through Josh was trust
and I'll sit there and go Eric did we
communicate with all the abutters on
that
property I believe we sent letters to
every abutter of that property yeah you
sent it to me after I've had traffic in
my in my backyard for six months or for
months so that's my concern I live alone
yeah and Sher Sherry I appreciate your
concerns we but we we were respectful of
your property and we were sitting there
and trying to address this in the best
possible way we could as as we were
going through and evaluating this so um
I would I'm just saying if you had
strangers coming in near your property
and walking around wouldn't you like to
know what was going on ahead of
time could that be concerning to you as
as as as a citizen Jerry absolutely but
that's why that's all know but that's
why we communicated to you and wanted to
get your feedback early on in this
process so what I'm gonna request is
that we all get together and we we we
meet with Sherry individually and sit
there and go through where it is where
this potential because Sherry there is
no Trail currently on that property it's
a proposed trail that would I understand
that modified to sit there and
hopefully
uh make it acceptable to you so what
we're going to try to do is get with you
to sit there and see where your property
is in relation to the proposed Trail and
if we need to make some modifications we
will and hopefully we can sit there and
um
um make it work for everybody involved
but I will tell you Sherry that we did
sit there and as a board request that
everybody in property owner be
communicated with to express their
concerns two months ago so and why we
appreciate you you coming on to our
meeting tonight and and doing it you
know um I've been feel stigma from this
the man the administration in this town
so I have not been able to feel safely
feel like I can communicate all times so
that's part of the reason understood and
and what we'll try to do is and and if
it's okay with everybody um if we can
sit there and and Mr Penn especially if
you can sit there and being an Andover
resident and being the trail
administrator if if we can get this
moving um if you can get with Sherry and
U walk the area near her house that
would be appreciated to us and then
we'll be able to sit there and address
it I understand and I I live right next
to the rail trail so I'm used to people
going past my property and hearing them
and stuff so I understand I can
appreciate her concern and John and I
will meet with her and look at the trail
and hopefully come to come to consensus
on the solution all right I appreciate
that anybody else on the board have any
other issues related to this
tonight no well I just think we got to
decide if that if the parking lot is
going to be feasible for for us to go
forward with
it
well we better understand that we have
an area for a trail that is acceptable
to everybody and that this board will
approve because if I understood it
correctly um Joshua's trust was willing
to front the costs on proposal to which
would mean there would be no cost the
town
potentially on the parking lot correct
but there's still a lot of things that
missing out of that
$88,000 so we have to make sure that's
feasible to us that it's
acceptable and um as the pictures I sent
to you on uh South River Road of the the
lot in centry um if we don't do this
right we're going to have a mud pit up
there I mean especially this time of
year um there's been cars stuck in that
lot down in South River Road um because
it wasn't done properly and I don't want
to have a a muddy mess up there um just
because we want to save
$8,000 okay
um uh understood and so Eric just so we
understand the parking lot that the town
crew built on Lake Road is closer to
which
proposal that is closer to proposal
number
two closer to proposal number two okay
um that was about 10,000 just in
materials okay but this is a much
smaller parking lot but the construction
methods that you would use or the town
crew would use to build the parking
lot you know I mean listen the lak road
parking area is gorgeous I mean honestly
drive by it every day it's it's really
nice it's well used um it's it's seems
to be easy to maintain if this parking
area that's on this property was similar
to that I think we would all probably
have to agree that that would be
acceptable to us so um yeah the only
issue there's just a couple issues I
have is just like the um um piling the
piling the brush basically we're just
gonna have a big brush pile there
instead of chipping it there's just some
other issue there's some other things
there that we should probably be aware
of before we move ahead to see if we
want to change that or not do we should
we chip it or we just going to have a
big pile of brush there and for the
neighbors to look at that's another
thing so okay
we may clean up one mess but then we're
going to create another correct and so I
don't disagree I don't disagree with
that I mean there's some things in the
in Jay's proposal that I had questions
with outright anyway but I do think
those questions can be asked of Eric and
of Jay in the interm we need to assuage
Sherry's concerns related to the trail
to get back to where we had all said
that we're not all of us but we were
trying to make sure that all the
neighbors and all of the Butters were
were comfortable with what we were
attempting to do
so so are you saying we're
[Music]
GNA you want to put this off until next
month and talk about it again yes I do
until we talked to Jerry
correct anybody else have a problem with
that no I mean I was gonna say for the
$8,000 one Jeff you know if they put
fabric down the boxed it out and put
fabric down and then put the material on
you have a much better uh base and you
wouldn't get mud like Jeff Murray
suggesting that one on South River Road
is a big mess drain better if you put
fabric in then you'd keep it it would it
keeps the material that you're putting
in away from the material that the base
material so you would have you know six
inches of good material that would
drain
okay well we we can get past that if we
can all agree upon where the trail would
would how the trail would be laid out
and then we can get to the parking area
because um you know I'll speak on behalf
of myself in the town we appreciate
Cher's trust all the work that you guys
have done related to this and we
appreciate the uh the offer of uh
funding the first $8,000 on the parking
lot it is appreciated um so but let's um
let's get past the the current issue
that we're dealing with and um let's
make sure that all of the abutters are
as comfortable as they can be possibly
made so that we can sit there and all
move forward uh in the initial stages of
this uh hand inand if possible okay all
right see you next month all right thank
you very much and Sherry we will sit
there and be reaching out to you to sit
there and
um
walk the property with you and the trail
with you so you understand exactly what
the thought is related to
this all right thank you no
problem okay let's move on to uh item
seven uh staff discussion on affordable
housing with Tom Tom planner nothing
needed on this so I'm just going to give
you a five-second update I pulled the
list of all the town properties um and I
pulled the list of all the properties
that abut the route six that are greater
than five acres and I gave that to the
town planner um to review um as we
already alluded to the only real
properties that the town currently owns
that would be amendable for housing
discussion is the property that the town
fall uh in school this area right here
Municipal complex and then the one
behind the transfer station
so the rest of the the properties are
basically unsuitable due to location or
size um or lack of access um but we'll
look at other other properties also and
get back to you on that all right thank
you uh 7c Community Center construction
update I believe we've already gone
through that does Scott or Jeff want to
add anything at this
time oh Eric went through it pretty good
all right 7D discussion of blight and
level of involvement um I know Eric
talked about that but go ahead Eric you
got anything to add there I don't really
have anything to add at this
point okay um a dentist did send us uh
an ordinance draft related to fines it's
something that we definitely need to
consider and get that at the next town
meeting and Dennis I would just sit
there and ask um if there's any other
ordinances when we get to the next town
meeting let's vote on uh ordinances that
we need to get in place so that U you
know whether it's this one related to uh
zoning fines or fining in general but
let's sit there and uh also think of any
of the other ordinances that the town
should really have in place that we
don't very good Jeff I am looking over
the ordinances to see uh ones that I
would recommend to add fines and
penalties to so so we could use our
current Origins that allows us to uh uh
site site and find uh people who violate
our
ordinances uh there would be fines
attached to them and it would make it
more meaningful and hopefully more uh
likely that we'll be able to uh you know
keep people away from violating in in
the long run and we'll have less to do
in that regard all right that would be
appreciated thank you um s hendy road
buddist Road impacts Eric is there
anything to update us on that uh so we
did when I say we I mean uh Jim hsy sent
a letter to them again stating hey you
know you're you're basically uh a
religious institution here you need to
go through and file the the proper
applications they've indicated that they
will have an application pending within
the next two weeks so as part of that
application process we should be able to
address any ongoing issues with parking
and other things that occur on that
location all right that' be appreciated
thank you uh 7f uh stiff account update
I know you provided us some information
in the packet related to that is there
anything you want to discuss related to
that um no we're still successfully
making a fair bit of Interest off the
stiff account so that's going well um
we're just basically maintaining the
minimum balance we have to pay our bills
locally and leaving the rest in the
stiff account okay all right thank you
excellent work uh 7g Firehouse meeting
April 14 1:30
PM
Paul we all good on that
date sorry my connection is not great
did you ask me something I did I was
asking you about the fire department
scheduled meeting yep the 14th is
confirmed
um I believe we said yep we said April
14th at 1:30 at the firehouse that's
confirmed
okay um all right any other questions
related to that
meeting okay all right thank you very
much
Paul put that on the calendar
okay um item eight new business uh by 8A
the uh discussion of the annual
audit Eric are you you good with it
where you at uh so we sent I sent a copy
to the board of Selectmen and board of
Finance um of the draft audit I don't
have any real issues with it um we're
still awaiting a uh corrective action
plan from the uh School finance office
um to address the issues that occur
between the town and the school other
than that I'm ready to file but I you
know I think both the board of selectman
and board of Finance um you know if you
have any objections to it I will raise
them with the auditor but other than
that after the the board of Finance
meeting in a couple of days I would like
to submit that
okay uh anybody have any other questions
related to
that
okay uh 8B a discussion on fire
department heavy rescue
sale so I'll give you this verbally the
fire chief and bard of fire
Commissioners have both asked me whether
the
town would allow them to sell the heavy
rescue uh prior to getting the
replacement Squad vehicle um because he
said basically if they wait um the
company that they're buying the squad
vehicle from will give them like $20,000
for both vehicles in trade in and he
feels it's a lot smarter to take the
time now and try to broker it and try to
sell it um and they'll be able to cover
themselves with the light rescue
temporarily long enough to get the squad
and since they already have a tanker um
and one engine they'll just rely on
Mutual aid for their second engine um in
the meantime so but that requires you
know you would have to as a board agree
to in motion to allow them to uh to
consider offers or to uh try to sell it
ahead of
time okay has the Fire Commission
approved that
yes okay does anyone else on the board
have any issues related to that with
their attempt to sell
it
okay um is there anything that you want
us to do related to that issue
Eric uh would make sense for you to make
a motion to allow the fire department to
uh get offers um and to broker um the
sale of the heavy rescue
vehicle okay uh I'll make a motion that
we uh allow the Fire Commission to uh
seek offers on the Department's heavy
rescue vehicle uh for
sale on
second all right any further questions
on
that any issues discussion all those in
favor
I I I okay
um 8C update on the Department of Public
Works equipment
projections yeah so you had asked and uh
Jay sent you all a spreadsheet and the
whole spreadsheet I didn't put in there
but I um a spreadsheet which had the
updated information you would asked for
a summary of the projections for
vehicles going forward and that's been
provided to
you and for finance and CIP okay so in
just the
so on page 25 of our packet there's a a
15-year capital equipment cost and a
16-year Capital Equipment cost can you
tell us what the difference is sure so
if you look at the first one the first
one you're looking at was the plan that
we originally produced in
2018 and the lower one is the plan as of
today um you know updated with six years
six years later and how that
looks
okay and isn't there an issue what what
is the issue currently with the
Department of Public Works just refresh
my memory
um if we chose to do what uh Jay was
requesting we would give him
authorization to buy a current vehicle
now is that correct is that required or
we done we haven't done that right we
haven't that's still that when we hold
the public meeting that will be one of
the items presuming the board of Finance
goes along with it and that's on their
agenda for for two days from now that uh
it would because it's something that we
would be financing that requires a
public meeting approval for the public
would have to weigh in and agree to
finance the roadside mower okay
um so the difference between the
prior equipment analysis and the current
one is an additional 9,000 or $8,000 of
annual
expenses
so yes in in in layman's terms when we
laid it out in
2018 we laid out a 15-year plan to bring
all of Public Works up to Modern
standards um we're really far along in
that and we've made major
improvements to that um the advantage of
that is our rate of buying can slow down
considerably for what it was because the
majority of the really old stuff is off
the books um and if we get the trailer
and we replace the roadside mower you
know we're in Fairly good shape and now
we're just in the replacing things on
their normal life schedule as opposed to
trying to bring everything up to the
modern era because it's all old if that
makes
sense it does so you're telling us we've
done a good job yeah
excellent good
job now we just need to get the next
thing
approved all right is anyone have any
questions related to the Department of
Public Works equipment
[Music]
projections okay 8D review the
significant taxpayer
list uh I did send you I did not put
this in the packet but I sent it to you
SE separately because you had asked me
to provide that information so as soon
as I had that I sent that to the board
to review I don't know where you want to
go with it or whether you want to share
that publicly or what you want to do
with that oh I do want to share it
publicly absolutely um let's put it on
our uh agenda for our next meeting so we
can ask some questions related to that
information that you provided us so we
can maybe get a little bit more detail
as to the exact nature of those
properties and especially the commercial
property so everybody understands
them okay anyone have any issues with
that right now we can discuss it Eric
toward our next meeting but does any of
the other members have any other issues
related to the list that we have
previously received or anything that
they want to look at moving forward
related to
that okay so do you then want the
assessor on or because I I'm not going
to be the guy that can answer all the
property questions so if you want to ask
those types of questions my suggestion
would be we ask Mr chaponis to to be on
the meeting I don't necessarily know
that our questions are going to be why
was something assessed at one value
versus another and if they are they
should be asked separately to the
assessor um okay
I think it would be helpful for us all
to understand that there's certain
commercial properties in town and this
is how much they pay and so that the
residents of our town can understand
that commercial development might be
beneficial to our community if at all
possible because of the taxes it does
pay and uh I think it's also pretty good
for us to understand
um what and how some of the residents in
town are taxed that are on the upper end
of that
list okay okay let's let's move on to uh
8e a discussion of extensive tree
trimming on burnup Brook
Road so Jeff or ex sorry jay asked me to
start this discussion with you probably
the the biggest single issue that we
have right now in terms of extensive
tree trimming would be uh burnap Brook
Road but the the issue with burnap and
there's a lot of stuff we have to take
down but there's also an awful lot of
stuff that's just closer to the road in
the road surface than we would like his
concern is that if he takes down
everything he thinks he would he would
want to take down it will change the
character of the road and make it a lot
more open it is now so before he starts
proposing that and starts working that
into the schedule he wanted the board of
Selectmen to take a look at it and see
what you all think so that he's not um
basically he doesn't want to hang
himself out to dry if he cuts a whole
bunch of stuff on fnap Brook and then
the residents are pissed or the board of
selectman pisted him so that's that's
his concern
about okay
um Scott knowing your expertise in in
trees is it possible for you to get with
Jay and look at what his thought is on
on burnap Brook
Road right did does did he come up with
a cost number
yet uh no but I mean given the other
roads that we've done we certainly could
fit it into next year's you know
allotment of
Monies
right I mean the question is more an
aesthetic question than it is a cost qu
question correct correct okay a lot of
the trees on that
road the butts of the trees are growing
almost next to the
asphalt they're growing you know so
close to the
road that they they do over Story the
whole road yeah okay so again Scott I'll
ask you the same question do you think
you have time to sit with Jay to look at
it from an his St I will I'll meet with
him yeah okay um does anyone else on the
board of Select and I know an you have a
question and we'll get to it one second
but does anybody have a problem with
Scott doing that on our
behalf okay Ann what do you
got um I'm just curious I drove down
that street and I can see how there's a
lot of trees close to the road how far
in is the town right of way so that they
would be trimming or are they going to
cut beyond the right of way is it just
in the right of way no we're not cutting
beyond the right away because we need
homeowner position permission to do that
anyway and as a general rule we don't
cut off the towns right away if can
unless there's some you know dire
catastrophic reason to do it we're okay
all we're talking about is within the
RightWay how far in does the RightWay go
or how's that measured
again so as an
approximation from the center line of
the road going about 25t in either side
is Town's right away the town generally
has a 50 foot right away we would have
to look at the actual Road itself to
figure out exactly what it is because
that's not true everywhere but generally
speaking we own a 50 foot RightWay in
town
roads so that normally extends in 10
feet so normally that's at least 10
generally speaking it's about 12 feet in
off the edge of pavement is is town uh
you know is Town property town right
there's quite a bit of that road Jeff
that has walls on it so those would be
noted okay whatever mapping there
is all right if we can sit there and uh
Scott if you can sit there and talk to
Jay and then come back at the next
meeting and let us know that you know if
you agree or disagree with what he's
looking at doing that would be helpful
to us
so appreciate that all right let's move
on to item nine approval of a minute
meetings for February 21st and February
26 somebody want to make a
motion um I don't have a I don't have a
great connection here but I will
try I make a motion to approve the
meeting minutes of the February 20 1
2024 special meeting and the February 20
actually should we do them separately if
anybody has any changes sure go ahead
we'll do them separately all right I'll
second
it right further discussion all those in
favor I I
I I make a motion to to approve the
meeting minutes of the February 26 2024
special budget
meeting second okay Ann seconded that
first so we'll give it to an all those
in favor I I I okay um item 10 the
treasurers report and the finance that
includes finance
department um Eric um one one quick
question before we go back to that if
you don't want John
chaponis on that conversation do you
want me to show the screen showing the
properties that you asked for and we
could review it now so we don't have to
put it off till next meeting no it's not
critical that it's done tonight it's
something is more in a general sense
that we should all be aware of and
understanding
how you know we generate money
especially from commercial properties
and how much that is how much that
raises for the town and what we
potentially can do moving forward um so
we're on item 10 the treasurers report
uh Eric the information provided there
wasn't anything specific from my end uh
and I'll start but on the revenue side
we have not received the second
component of the um the educational ECS
funding yeah I don't we don't get a lot
of that until very late in the year so
yeah I would assume we have not gotten
that
yet and I haven't seen it come through
on the list of requisitions
so okay uh anyone have any other
questions related to the expense section
uh the town budget actual budget through
February
okay
um so contingency just for one last
thing contingency because we've talked
about it there's currently
$445,000 remaining in contingency Eric
correct
okay all
right um any questions on Tech register
that was provided to us no um I did want
to ask about the
um the interim balances by class so this
is basically going by
fund so
[Music]
right so the equipment fund relates to
town equipment and that's what's left is
$25,000
[Music]
well 100 I'm sorry 119 my bad I Wasing
yeah okay I was
gonna
correct and then currently in tree
removal we have $44,000 that's you know
anticipated on being spent between now
and well we have we have a lot less of
that we just haven't got the bills in
we've had tenant working a lot um the
last month or so so so I would say we've
spent well more than half of that in the
last month it's just not we don't have
the bills yet so it's not reflected here
but tenant is actively working in the
town we are collaborating with ever
Sports again working down our our
project
list
okay does anyone have any other
questions related any of those
items okay
um Eric how many of these funds would
you like to get off of our books and
move some other
place the vast majority of them uh
to be honest um we are working on that
Cheryl and I are working on that again I
mean frankly you know we we've carried
the transfer station shed as a liability
now for the last three years um we need
to get just the board of Finance to
agree to transfer money from that from
either the multi-use building fund or
the building maintenance fund that was
hearkening back to a project that was
done four years ago we
just the end of the day we overspent
that project total by seven or 8,000 and
it's still on books so that one needs to
go away
um you know there there's we've gotten
rid of a lot of the funds but we still
have you know some we need to deal
with pedestrian bridge fund times Farms
Bridge fund yeah so the Times Farm
Bridge fund I mean we're going to
basically roll that money into to the
bridge and covert fund I mean I'm
counting on that to get us to the amount
of money we actually need to fix the for
the uh the the bridge on lake or the
Culver on Lake uh Street or Lake Road
let's um let's go through that obviously
when you get with Sheryl let's clean up
as many of these as we possibly can I
mean y some significant dollars and if
we could push them into areas that would
be um more available and ready to be
spent on projects that are important
that would be
great yep okay uh let's go on to the tax
collector's
report any issues related to this report
from
anyone
okay
collected
$165,000 last
month low month not a collection month
uh and Eric did we talk about uh the
uncollected taxes by year and trying to
get these balances to
sync we have had that discussion and she
and I spent a fair bit of time reviewing
uh if you look down in the
2022 uh column for uncollected taxes by
year you'll notice that number has is
around 2 million not around 8 million so
that should be uh much closer that
should be correct at this
point okay it's
close six grand I'll take it well but
but the problem is is that this report
and the the py graph one aren't
necessarily made one is
made on the first of the month and one
is made whenever she happens to print
that out so those never match because
they're off a few days and when they
were created that's part of the issue
with that because I I raised that
concern myself and got that
answer all right uh any of the other
reports in any the assessor's
office
report anything related to
that okay Bill building
department 28 total permits issued in
the
month
okay uh Department of Public Works
anybody have any questions related to
that documentation information provided
us no
okay and so that extends out
and the library report that was provided
to
us the regist
voters they Pro processed 65 voters in
town for
February okay senior Transportation
provided an addition of probably close
to 100
trips and they took a ful picture of the
senior drivers thank you very much
Kathy actually I took that picture but
you took that picture y you Prov they
all look good in there hand over senior
Transportation
uniforms I got them all together in one
spot so I took a picture all right and
how uh how are the new vehicles
going uh good so we as of today got a
bunch of paperwork back from the state
um which is all the forms we have to
fill out when we actually get the
vehicle uh to commission it you know
inspection report exterior inspection
interior inspection all that kind of
stuff um as far as I understand we're
looking at the middle of April to
actually take delivery of the vehicle
per the the coach manufacturer who's
building okay and then how about the new
um
the small
SUV working well problem that's working
great you know um going fine everybody
seems happy with it nice comfortable
vehicle to
drive um easy access the seniors aren't
are satisfied with it no problems yep
yep all right
um correspondence we had some
information from the fuels fuel
assistance fund
donation yeah so I just wanted to
publicly thank uh the uh the church in
Colombia um they're one of a couple
different Civic
organizations that donate money to the
Andover fuel bank um as you probably may
or may not know we don't actually our
fuel Reserve our emergency fuel Reserve
um we don't
uh that's not funded via taxation that's
funded through
donations so and we had recently pretty
well uh run out the monies that are in
the fund so now we're nice and solvent
again if we have to provide emergency
fuel uh assistance for a resident and
just so that you know the way this
program works is for us to give them
fuel they have to basically be out of
fuel number one and they have to have
already done the paperwork to uh to get
fuel through the access agency and then
we just basically Supply we keep them
going long enough for them to get
through the paperwork and get on the
state fuel assistance program um it's
kind of a bridge to keep people from you
know freezing until they can qualify for
State
assistance and that's a program that
Roberta
runs okay very nice of St Columba um
that is greatly appreciated thank you
very much yep right
um anything else related to any of the
departmental reports or correspondence
by any of the other
members
okay all right let's move on to public
speak we'll start with uh Diane
Grenier hello um I just wanted to
comment again on the sign uh you talked
about the reflect letters um I was
single-handedly um in charge of getting
the big sign for the um veterans
Monument Park I did a whole lot of
research on that and one of the things
was the go leafing and it's not a matter
of um cost it's how reflective it is
it's awful take a look in in uh Hein
they've got a lot of gold leaf St
Maurice's Church St George's and at
night with the headlights on the cars
you can't read it is so reflective you
can't read the letters on a bright
sunshiny day again it's way too
reflective so you might want to take a
look at that before you decide go go out
at night time and um take a look at that
all right thank you very much that was
it thank you very much it's always very
informative okay thank you um Joanne
Ebert um just reiterating my point
hoping to see a public meeting in the
next few weeks it'll just be so helpful
to get community input with you know
some of the ideas that are out there and
you know the big expensive items that
are coming before all the boards that
have to make decisions on things you
know we love to have the public input
and um yeah just looking forward to
having that soon thank
you all right thank you very much um uh
am I missing anyone else on at the very
end uh Dennis O'Brien if you'd like like
to participate on both sides of public
speak you're more than
welcome wow silence come on
Dennis all
right
[Music]
um that would be it for public speak and
now um I'm make a motion that we move
into executive session to discuss uh and
then how would I how would you want me
to phrase it Eric and
[Music]
uh I would just say employee matters
employee matters I'll make a motion that
we move to Executive session to discuss
employee
matters a second all right all those in
favor
I I okay and who are you inviting into
executive session we're going to invite
uh Eric Anderson and attorney Dennis
O'Brien into executive session okay
um